1914 will be forever remembered as the year the world went to war, but unless you’re an enthusiast for economic history it’s easy to forget that it was also the year the United States signed into law the Federal Reserve Act and created the beginnings of the economic system we use today.(federalreserveeducation.org)  

#### The Federal Reserve
Since its inception the Federal Reserve has gained more power and influence and has been able to make specific policy decisions that affect our currency and keep interest rates low in times of crisis such as the September 11th attacks. (federalreserveeducation.org)  But central banks apropos of electronic transactions are fraught with dangers such as illegitimate transactions and security breaches, dangers that the banking system attempts to mitigate. (Berensten and Schar, A Short Introduction to the World of Cryptocurrencies 2-3)

Recent technological advances have allowed for alternative ways of approaching the problem of currency.  As the system currently stands, the money we use is regulated and enforced by the federal government. (federalreserveeducation.org)  

But what if another system were possible?  New technology behind blockchains and distributed ledgers allow the possibility of a system where currencies may act competitively and privately, whereas  the electronic money we use today must go through a central authority like a bank, and is vulnerable to fraud and attack. (Berensten and Schar, A Short Introduction to the World of Cryptocurrencies 2-3)  Moving away from a central banking system may be able to solve some of these problems.

#### Alternatives
This paper attempts to explore differing perspectives on the idealism of cryptocurrencies, the history of the existing system, and the response this new technology has triggered in potential banking policies. It does so by a comparison of  Dong He’s paper Monetary Policy in the Digital Age: Crypto Assets May One Day Reduce Demand for Central Bank Money with the History of the Federal Reserve, and contrasts their views with that of Berensten and Schar’s in the paper Monetary Policy in the Digital Age: Crypto Assets May One Day Reduce Demand for Central Bank Money.  While these authors are all working from the same set of facts, they have different overall conclusions on what the future will bring with regards to monetary policy decisions, and seem to be coming at it from a differing perspective than that of the Federal Reserve’s website which touches on historical information and interest rates in times of crisis.  Something that the two academic articles don’t explore.

What if you could have a piece of electronic information that acted as money?  It’s not a new idea, but the use of this idea has been held back by something called the “double-spending problem”.  The double spending problem can be thought of in this way: If I have a piece of digital information equal to a dollar, what’s to prevent me from simply copying that information over and over and spending the same dollar?  When physical currency is spent, it’s gone.  Short of an extensive counterfeiting operation I couldn’t use the same dollar over and over. (Berensten and Schar, A Short Introduction to the World of Cryptocurrencies 2-3)
This problem was solved with a kind of technology known as a “blockchain” that came about when a new technology was introduced to the world known as Bitcoin. According to Berensten and Scharr “The key feature of the Bitcoin system is the absence of a centrally managed ledger. There is no central authority with an exclusive right to keep accounts.”  (Berensten and Schar, A Short Introduction to the World of Cryptocurrencies 2-3)) Blockchains are cryptographically verified distributed ledgers— meaning that everyone who uses a cryptocurrency carries a ledger of which coins are where in the world.  An individual will be prevented from spending a coin they do not own by a check against the worldwide distributed record.  And so, unlike a bank— where electronic transactions must go through a central authority to verify that everyone has the money they say they do— cryptocurrency doesn’t need to place trust in a middleman to view and verify information.  (He)  
Systems like this open up a whole new world of possibilities for the ways we use money. The idealism and novelty surrounding the crypto movement can be seen in Dong He’s paper Monetary Policy in the Digital Age: Crypto Assets May One Day Reduce Demand for Central Bank Money where the author explains “New services using distributed ledger technology and crypto assets have slashed the time it takes for cross-border payments to reach their destination from days to seconds by bypassing correspondent banking networks.” (He)

Berensten and Schar shed light on problems that block widespread adoption of cryptocurrency.  Their paper The Case for Central Bank Electronic Money and the Non-case for Central Bank Cryptocurrencies points out issues such as ways in which central banks will be disincentivized from accepting cryptographic assets as a means of value store in the same way that federally distributed money is.  Providing insight on ways in which cryptocurrency ideologies will hurt central banking, they describe several pitfalls inherent with adoption of distributed ledger technology, such as lack of adoption and possible security concerns.
As it currently stands cryptocurrency behaves less like a currency, and more like a share or stock of a company.  Values fluctuate and are subject to wild bouts of instability, which has made cryptographic trading a popular new frontier for would-be investors.  Cryptographic assets must someday become much more stable than they are today if they are ever to enter real public usage in the same way a dollar is used. (He) 

The authors cited in this essay explore the potential ramifications of this new system.  However, the conclusions reached are quite different.  
Dong He takes the position that while cryptographic assets are volatile and unstable now, they pose a major threat the to the status quo of centralized electronic transactions and discusses ways in which central banks can respond in order to stay relevant.  Berensten and Schar on the other  hand take the view that centralized banks adopting cryptographic assets is unrealistic, and state “we believe that the call for a “Fedcoin” or any other central bank cryptocurrency is somewhat naïve”. (Berensten and Schar, The Case for Central Bank Electronic Money and the Non-Case for Central Bank Cryptocurrencies 104)  They posit that someday if a different means of electronic exchange exists it will be a form of centralized currency issued by banks which look very different than current cryptographic assets.  The reason for this being that “The distinguishing characteristic of cryptocurrencies is the decentralized nature of transaction handling, which enables users to remain anonymous and allows for permissionless access. These key characteristics are a red flag for central banks, and we predict that no reputable central bank would issue a decentralized virtual currency where users can remain anonymous. ”  (Berensten and Schar, The Case for Central Bank Electronic Money and the Non-Case for Central Bank Cryptocurrencies 104) .  In contrast neither of these two authors touch upon how cryptographic assets may respond in times of crisis, such as terrorist attacks.  What would the ramifications be of another 9/11 for cryptographic assets?  Would decentralized currency remain stable?  Given the current sporadic value of decentralized currencies, it seems unlikely.

While the world of this new technology is a rocky one, it’s also one in which we as a world based society are able to challenge existing economic circumstances.  New invention and technology brings with it ideas that even when unrealistic change the conversation surrounding our current system. Increased conversation leads ultimately to more individual freedom, and that in and of itself is valuable. 


##### Works Cited:

Berentsen, Aleksander, and Fabian Schar. “A Short Introduction to the World of 
Cryptocurrencies.” Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis Review, vol. 100, no. 1, 1st 
Quarter 2018, pp. 1–16.
Berentsen, Aleksander, and Fabian Schar. “The Case for Central Bank Electronic Money 
and the Non-Case for Central Bank Cryptocurrencies.” Federal Reserve Bank of St. 
Louis Review, vol. 100, no. 2, Second Quarter 2018, pp. 97–106.
“History of the Federal Reserve” federalreserveeducation.org, 
https://www.federalreserveeducation.org/about-the-fed/history. Accessed 2 March 
2019.
Dong He. “Monetary Policy in the Digital Age: Crypto Assets May One Day 
Reduce Demand for Central Bank Money.” Finance & Development, vol. 55, no. 2, 
June 2018, p. 13.
